Update the documentation to describe the new Protocol 17 features. (#383)
stellar/new-docs: content/docs/glossary/clawback.mdx

---
title: Clawbacks
order:
---

import { CodeExample } from "components/CodeExample";
import { Alert } from "components/Alert";

Protocol 17 introduces operations that allow asset issuers to maintain tighter control over how their asset is distributed to the world. Specifically, it gives them power to **burn their asset** from a trustline or claimable balance, effectively removing it from the recipient's balance sheet:

> The amount of the asset clawed back is burned and is not sent to any other address. The issuer may reissue the asset to the same account or to another account if the intent of the clawback is to move the asset to another account.

This allows for things like regulatory enforcement, safety and control over certain assets, etc. You can refer to [CAP-35](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0035.md) for more motivations or technical details behind these new features.

## Relevant operations
Configuring and performing a clawback involves several discrete steps:

> 

Reviewer: Possible to clarify who takes each of these steps?  I believe 
- An issuer sets a clawback flag on their issuing account
- An asset holder establishes a trustline for the asset
- Any account can make a payment with the asset
- The issuer can claw back some or all of the asset

But I think the flow will be easier to follow if the actor is more explicit.

Author: Good call! Done in e52ee4a1c4da4f314eb728e0a337c8554718a74e.

 - establishing trustlines for a particular asset (via [ChangeTrust](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#change-trust)),
 - making a payment with a particular asset (e.g. via a [Payment](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#payment)), and finally
 - clawing back some or all of the asset (via [Clawback](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback) or [Clawback Claimable Balance](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback-claimable-balance)).

### Setting Account Options
In order to enable clawback, the issuer account must first set the `AUTH_CLAWBACK_ENABLED` flag on itself. This will cause *every* subsequent trustline established from this account to have its corresponding `TRUSTLINE_CLAWBACK_ENABLED_FLAG` set automatically.

Note an important corequirement described in [the CAP](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0035.md#semantics):

> If an issuer wishes to set `AUTH_CLAWBACK_ENABLED_FLAG`, it must also have `AUTH_REVOCABLE_FLAG` set.

This allows an asset issuer to clawback balances locked up in offers by first revoking authorization from a trustline, which pulls all offers that involve that trustline. The issuer can then perform the clawback.

> If you'd like to control which specific trustlines have clawbacks enabled, you need to clear the flag on the trustline via [SetTrustLineFlags](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#set-trustline-flags). Note that you can **only** clear the flag, not set it, in order to give asset holders perpetual confidence about the future state of their holdings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to forgo clawback capability on a specific account, you can clear the flag on that account's trustline via [SetTrustLineFlags](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#set-trustline-flags). Note that you can **only** clear the flag, not set it, in order to give asset holders perpetual confidence about the future state of their holdings.
```

### Clawback

> Once an account holds a particular asset for which clawbacks have been enabled, you can claw it back (provided you are the issuer, obviously). You need to provide the asset, a quantity, and the account from which you're clawing the asset back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an account holds a particular asset for which clawbacks have been enabled, you can claw it back (provided you are the issuer, obviously). You need to provide the asset, a quantity, and the account from which you're clawing back the asset.
```

### Clawback Claimable Balance

> [Claimable balances](./claimable-balance.mdx), introduced in [Protocol 15](https://www.stellar.org/blog/protocol-14-improvements), provides another way for accounts to acquire assets. They are a special, two-part payment, and thus need to be clawed back differently. All you need to do is provide the claimable balance ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Claimable balances](./claimable-balance.mdx), introduced in [Protocol 15](https://www.stellar.org/blog/protocol-14-improvements), provide another way for accounts to acquire assets. They are a special, two-part payment, and thus need to be clawed back differently. All you need to do is provide the claimable balance ID.
```

---
title: Clawbacks
order:
---

import { CodeExample } from "components/CodeExample";
import { Alert } from "components/Alert";

> Protocol 17 introduces operations that allow asset issuers to maintain tighter control over how their asset is distributed to the world. Specifically, it gives them power to **burn their asset** after a [payment][ex1] or [claimable balance][ex2] to another account, effectively removing it from the recipient's balance sheet:

Reviewer 2: I would write the last sentence differently to `Specifically, it gives them power to **burn their asset** from a trustline or claimable balance, effectively removing it from the recipient's balance sheet.` It's possible for an account to fund it's trustline using offers (and I _think_ this is a common way to fund trustlines?) instead of using payments. I think it's more relevant to talk about trustlines here, but please let me know if I'm thinking too low level here.

Author: Good call, covering all of the ways that accounts can have funds is hard. 8f9e286

> The amount of the asset clawed back is burned and is not sent to any other address. The issuer may reissue the asset to the same account or to another account if the intent of the clawback is to move the asset to another account.

This allows for things like regulatory enforcement, safety and control over certain assets, etc. You can refer to [CAP-35](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0035.md) for more motivations or technical details behind these new features.

## Relevant operations
Configuring and performing a clawback involves several discrete steps:

 - setting up your account to enable clawbacks (via [SetOptions](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#set-options)),
 - establishing trustlines for a particular asset (via [ChangeTrust](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#change-trust)),

>  - making a payment with a particular asset (via [Payment](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#payment) or [Create Claimable Balance](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#create-claimable-balance)), and finally

Reviewer 2: Related to my point above - It's possible receive an asset through offers.

Author: Yeppers, generalized it in 8f9e286.

 - clawing back some or all of the asset (via [Clawback](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback) or [Clawback Claimable Balance](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback-claimable-balance)).

### Setting Account Options

> In order to enable clawback, an account must first specify the `AUTH_CLAWBACK_ENABLED` flag on its account. This will cause *every* subsequent trustline established from this account to have its corresponding `TRUSTLINE_CLAWBACK_ENABLED_FLAG` set automatically.

Reviewer 2: I would change `an account` to `the issuer account`. What you have here is pretty clear, but I wouldn't be surprised if some people think that account is referring to the account that owns the trustline.

Author: Good call. 8f9e286

Note an important corequirement described in [the CAP](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0035.md#semantics):

> > If an issuer wishes to set `AUTH_CLAWBACK_ENABLED_FLAG`, it must also have `AUTH_REVOCABLE_FLAG` set.

Reviewer 2: I would mention that this allows an issuer to clawback from balances locked up due to offers by allowing them to first revoke authorization from a trustline, which pulls all offers that involve that trustline. The issuer can then perform the clawback.

Author: I can't claim to understand this precisely yet, so I'm going to read this again in the morning and integrate it into the text heh.

> If you'd like to control which specific trustlines or assets have clawback enabled, you need to clear the flag on the trustline via [SetTrustLineFlags](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#set-trustline-flags). Note that you can **only** clear the flag, not set it, in order to give asset holders perpetual confidence about the state of their holdings.

Reviewer 2: I would remove `or assets` here since the trustline is what has the clawback flag, not the asset.

Author: Good call, 8f9e286.

> The amount of the asset clawed back is burned and is not sent to any other address. The issuer may reissue the asset to the same account or to another account if the intent of the clawback is to move the asset to another account.

This allows for things like regulatory enforcement, safety and control over certain assets, etc. You can refer to [CAP-35](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0035.md) for more motivations or technical details behind these new features.

## Relevant operations
Configuring and performing a clawback involves several discrete steps:

 - **the issuer**: sets up their account to enable clawbacks (via [SetOptions](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#set-options)),
 - **the recipients**: establish trustlines for the issuer's asset (via [ChangeTrust](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#change-trust)),
 - someone transfers value with the issued asset (e.g. via a [Payment](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#payment) or other mechanism), and finally

>  - **the issuer** claws back 3some or all of the asset (via [Clawback](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback) or [Clawback Claimable Balance](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback-claimable-balance)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **the issuer** claws back some or all of the asset (via [Clawback](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback) or [Clawback Claimable Balance](../start/list-of-operations.mdx#clawback-claimable-balance)).
```
